Now that we got the history and
the intro out of the way,
let's actually get
started building our app.
And like I said,
it's gonna be a CLI note-taking app.
So if you don't know what a CLI is, turns
out you've been using one this whole time.
Any command you use in this
terminal is technically a CLI.
So let's actually dive into that.
In order to understand what a CLI is,
we need to talk about a few things,
the process and the environment.
I've been talking about something
called a runtime, which Node.js is.
And I've been talking about the different
things you get, JavaScript and Node.js
has access to different globals and things
than the JavaScript and the browser.
And some of those things, it's because of
the environment in which it's running in.
So Node.js is running in your
operating system environment,
whereas JavaScript is running
in a browser environment.
So your operating system environment
provides all different types of things.
One of the most powerful ones
is something called process.
So you get access to this process global,
which if you just go log it, I mean,
you could just look at it.
I'll let it speak, actually,
do I wanna log this?
Okay, I'm not gonna log my cuz I
got some sensitive stuff in there,
so I'm not gonna log it.
But if you wrote a log process,
you would see a bunch of
different methods, information and
data related to the operating system
that your code is running on.
It might know the name of your computer.
It might show different other
programs that are running.
It'll show you all different
types of information.
This is how you can access and
make your Node.js program dynamic,
depending on which
environment it's running on,
because Node.js applications are meant to
be deployed to another computer somewhere.
So you need to find some way to make sure
your application can work on different
types of computers and
take advantage of different types of
resources and keeping it dynamic.
Whereas when you make a web app that's
meant for the browser, you don't really
have to think about that other than
different versions of a browser,
which I don't think we
think about today anyway.
That's so 2015.
We don't think about
browser versions anymore.
So yeah, process is a big one.
We'll be using that today.
One of the biggest properties on the
process object is something called argv.
And this basically allows
you to get pretty much
everything that comes after node.
So the best way I can
describe it is like this.
So I'm going to log(process.argv),
like that.
It's gonna be an array.
And then what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna go run that file, index.js, but
I'm gonna put some other
stuff after this file.
So I'll just say thing and then thing2 and
then I'll say this number here.
I'm just gonna run that.
And you see I get back this array.
The first two is always gonna be
the environment, the process itself.
So the first thing in the array is always
gonna be the path in which the instance of
node that I used to execute this file,
it's always gonna point to that.
The second one is always gonna point
to the file that this node executed.
And then everything after that is just
gonna be in order of the other things that
you passed.
So you can think of this as like passing
arguments to a program in your terminal.
That's basically what this is.
It's passing arguments, right?
So, yeah, and
if we think about building a CLI,
this is very useful cuz we want our CLI
to be dynamic and take in different
arguments and do different things
when those different arguments come.
So that's basically how you would do
it using the argv one, very powerful.
There's other things on there as well.
But that's probably one
of the biggest ones.
And then also, of course,
can't forget process.env,
which is going to be your
environment variables.
If you've ever deployed anything,
anywhere,
you've probably used
environment variables, right?
You're talking like, I have an app that
uses this API key or these secrets or
something like that,
that I cannot check into GitHub.
So how do you get those
in your environment?
Well, you need to create an environment
variable and then inject it into your
platform, whether it's AWS, Vercel,
wherever you're deploying stuff.
Because you don't want that hard coded
into your code so people can steal it.
So you inject it into your environment and
then you can read it from your environment
by doing process.env.whatever
the name of that environment is.
So this is where you can store secrets and
stuff like that and get access to it.
Every operating system language
in the world has this.
In fact, pretty much everything we're
covering, there's something very
similar to every other language that runs
on your computer, cuz they all are trying
to accomplish the same goal, so
they have very similar things.
So it would be really hard to,
actually, it would be impossible
to deploy a safe app on a remote
machine without environment variables.
You just couldn't do it,
not safely at least.
So every language needs to has this.
Does that make sense?
All right, so this common one
right here is Node environment.
This is something that we use in the
community to basically switch the mode of
our app.
We can put it in production.
We can put it in development.
We can put it in testing.
And then somewhere in our code,
it's checking to see what mode we're in.
And it might change certain things.
For instance, if I'm in development mode,
I might say, turn on logging,
so all my logging works.
But when I'm in production,
I might turn those off or vice versa,
however you wanna do that.
If I'm in development mode,
maybe I'll turn off authentication.
I wanna bypass authentication so
I can just test things out.
But in production, I wanna turn it on.
So I can use that environment variable
as a flag to switch things on or off.
Big one is analytics.
If we have tons of tracking
going on in our servers,
every interaction that someone's doing,
I don't want that running during
development mode, so I'll turn that off,
if NODE_ENV equals development or testing,
but in production I'll turn that on.
So it's just a way to toggle
things almost feature flag.
It's also a way to turn on performance.
So React for instance uses NODE_ENV to,
you ever did something in React,
and it'll give you a warning or
something like that?
Whereas if you turn it on in production,
it'll probably give you an error.
It'll change its behavior on
how it reports warnings and
errors, depending on what
the node environment is.
And then it and
optimizes itself too to perform
better if NODE_ENV is set to production.
Whereas in development,
it kinda ignores those optimizations so
it can be faster during a hot reload.
And it doesn't care about optimizing for
rendering speed and things like that, yes.
>> Is there something like
process.argc in Node?
>> Process.rc?
>> Argc.
>> Argc, I've never heard of argc?
I mean,
we can log it to see if it's there.
I'd be curious, but I don't think so.
And if it is, I don't know what it is.
No, there's nothing called argc.
>> Used for counting arguments.
>> Yeah.
>> Something like that.
>> And then one other question here.
>> Yep.
>> What is the best practice for
sharing .env files?
>> You hop on the phone
with somebody [LAUGH] no.
There's a lot of ways to do,
I mean, there really isn't one way.
There's apps that you can store
all your environment variables in.
And then they'll give you
one environment variable and
a script that will take that environment
variable, go to their API and
pull down all your other environment
variables and inject them for you.
So as a team you'll need to know
one of them and not all of them.
Some people put them in password managers.
So put them in LastPass, or OnePass or
something that's encrypted with a vault.
And they'll do that.
Other people might just pass around
their .env files on Slack or
whatever because it's just local things.
There really isn't, I mean,
that's a billion-dollar problem, right?
If someone gets access to
your environment variables,
they get access to your whole system.
Some of the biggest hacks in the world
with some of the bigger systems out there
is because someone got a hold
of their environment variables.
So that's a really hard problem to solve.
So I don't know if you can
solve that problem cheaply.
You might have a really
good start-up idea there.
But yeah,
there really isn't a perfect way.
There's just trade-offs for
every single situation that you do.
But for the most part,
people don't really share them.
They either put them in a vault
where they share across the team, or
everyone gets their own instance
of that environment variable.
For instance, if you have like, I don't
know, you need database connection string.
Well, you'll probably
go into that database,
make your own user with your own password.
That way you're not sharing it with anyone
cuz you have your own version of that.
And that way you don't need to share it.
You just put it into your environment
variable file and things like that.
And then you might have people who are in
charge of DevOps or something like that,
and they'll go into AWS and
put them in there.
So it's never really shared.
It's just where it needs to be and
no one else needs to see them.
But yeah, no one does this perfectly.
GitHub does now detect environment
variables in your pull requests,
in your repos now, and it'll tell you,
like, hey, you got some secrets here.
So it's getting better.
It's not completely solved.